# Groups of symmetries

How does symmetry relate to groups?

The examples of groups that we've seen so far deal with arrangements of similar things.

## Cayley's theorem

Every group can be viewed as a collection of ways to rearrange some sets of things.

## How to make a group out of symmetries

Groups relate to symmetry because an object's symmetries can be described using arrangements of the object's pairs.

### Algorithm

1. Identify all the parts of the objects that are similar (e.g. the corners of an n-gon), and give each such part a different number.
2. Consider the actions that may rearrange the numbered parts, but leave the object in the same physical space. (The collection of action forms a group.)
3. (Optional) If you want to visualize the group, explore and map it as we did in the previous lecture with the rectangle puzzle, etc.

# Crystallography

## Frieze patterns

Patterns that only repeat in 1 dimension are called frieze patterns. 

A glide reflection is a an action that consists of a horizontal translation followed by a vertical flip.

The symmetry of any frieze pattern can be described by one of 7 different infinite groups.

The symmetry of 2-dimensional repeating patterns, called "wallpaper patterns" has also been classified.
There are 17 different wallpaper groups.

There are 230 crystallographic groups, which describe the symmetries of 3-dimensional repeating patterns.

## Wallpaper patterns

There are 17 types of wallpaper patterns.

## Braid groups


 
