## Standard definition of a group

We call the members of a group **elements**. In general, a group is a **set of elements** satisfying some set of properties.

`h \in V_4` - h is an element of the group V_4

### Binary operations

Intuitively, an **operation** isa method for combining objects. For example,
`+, - *, and /` are all examples of operations. In fact, these are **binary operations** because
they combine two objects into a single object.

Definition:

If `*` is a **binary operation** on a set S, then `s * t \in S for all s, t \in S`. In this case, we say
that S is **closed** under operation `*`. 

Combining, or "multiplying" two group elements (i.e. doing one action followed by the other) is a binary operation.
We say that it is a binary operation on the group.

### Associativity

Recall that an operation is **associative** if parentheses are permitted anywhere, but required nowhere.

Is the operation of combining actions in a group associative? Yes!

Example: D_3 - equilateral triangle, generated by r (rotate) and f (horizontal flip).

`rfr, (rf)r, r(fr)`

## Classical definition of a group

A set G is a group if the following criteria are satisfied:
- There is a **binary operation** `*` on G
- `*` associative
- There is an **identity** element `e \in G`. That is `e * g = g = g * e`, for all `g \in G`
- Every element g has an inverse g^(-1) satisfying `g * g^(-1) = e = g^(-1) * g`

## A few simple properties

### Theorem

Every element of a group has a *unique* inverse.

### Proof

Let g to be an element of a group. By definition, it has at least one inverse.
Suppose that h and k are both inverses of g. This means that
`gh = hg = e` and `gk = kg = e`. It suffices to show that `h = k`.
Indeed, `h = he = h(gk) = (hg)k = ek = k`, and the proof is complete.

### Theorem

Every group has a unique identity element

### Proof

Let's suppose that we have two identity elements: e1 and e2.
Meaning that `g * e1 = e1 * g = g` and `g * e2 = e2 * g = g`.
`e1 = g * g^(-1) = (e2 * g) * g^(-1) = e2 * (g * g^(-1)) = e2`


